OCPBUGS-10640-13: 4.13 Added clarification point to disk partition BM… (#73361)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-user-infra-machines-advanced.adoc

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced_disk_{context}"]
== Disk partitioning

> The disk partitions are created on {product-title} cluster nodes during the {op-system-first} installation. Each {op-system} node of a particular architecture uses the same partition layout, unless the default partitioning configuration is overridden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disk partitions are created on {product-title} cluster nodes during the {op-system-first} installation. Each {op-system} node of a particular architecture uses the same partition layout, unless you override the default partitioning configuration.
```
- Omit definite article. It doesn't look you're referring back to specific partitions here.
- Avoid passive voice.

During the {op-system} installation, the size of the root file system is increased to use the remaining available space on the target device.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> The use of a custom partition scheme on your node could result in {product-title} not monitoring or alerting on some node partitions. If you are overriding the default partitioning, see link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/4766521[Understanding OpenShift File System Monitoring (eviction conditions)] for more information about how {product-title} monitors your host file systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The use of a custom partition scheme on your node might result in {product-title} not monitoring or alerting on some node partitions. If you are overriding the default partitioning, see link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/4766521[Understanding OpenShift File System Monitoring (eviction conditions)] for more information about how {product-title} monitors your host file systems.
```
Per the [ISG](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#c), don't use `could` "in the present tense to mean might or can".

====

{product-title} monitors the following two filesystem identifiers:

* `nodefs`, which is the filesystem that contains `/var/lib/kubelet`
* `imagefs`, which is the filesystem that contains `/var/lib/containers`

For the default partition scheme, `nodefs` and `imagefs` monitor the same root filesystem, `/`.

If you want to override the default partitioning when installing {op-system} on an {product-title} cluster node, you must create separate partitions.

[IMPORTANT]
====
For disk sizes larger than 100GB, and especially disk sizes larger than 1TB, create a separate `/var` partition. See "Creating a separate `/var` partition" and this link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/5587281[Red Hat Knowledgebase article] for more information.
====

> You might want to add a separate storage partition for your containers and container images. For example, by mounting `/var/lib/containers` in a separate partition, the kubelet separately monitor `/var/lib/containers` as the `imagefs` directory and the root file system as the `nodefs` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[In situations such as...], you might want to add a separate storage partition for your containers and container images. For example, by mounting `/var/lib/containers` in a separate partition, the kubelet separately monitors `/var/lib/containers` as the `imagefs` directory and the root file system as the `nodefs` directory.
```
- I'd suggest adding a clause at the beginning for this sentence to add clarification about when a user might want to add a separate storage partition. I think it'd be good for users to know when doing so would be useful.
- Fix subject-verb disagreement typo.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> If you resized your disk size to host a larger file system, consider creating a separate `/var/lib/containers` partition. This is important for a disk formatted to `xfs`, where a high number of allocation groups might cause CPU time issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have resized your disk size to host a larger file system, consider creating a separate `/var/lib/containers` partition. This is important for a disk formatted to `xfs`, where a high number of allocation groups might cause CPU time issues.
```
- Adding a present participle indicates more clearly that you're talking about a present situation, imo. WDYT?
- Per the ISG [avoid ambiguous pronoun references](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-pronouns#ambiguous-pronoun-references); what does "This" refer to? Try to rephrase the last sentence to avoid a "this is" construction at all (see the ISG word usage guidance for "[there is, there are](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#t)" for an example.
